{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c87059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Thought for Food: Providing Quality Recipe Recommendations to the Bourgeoning Cook\

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Abstract:
\f1\b0  Recommender systems have gained traction in recommending movies, songs, and merchandise. Here, we look at a recommender system for food recipes using ratings and recipe datasets collected from Food.com over 18 years. We implement two separate approaches of collaborative filtering\'97 matrix factorization and user-user similarity to recommend users unseen recipes. We\'92ve incorporated x metrics. Future work will include ultilizing different datasets, looking at content-based regression approaches, other similarity metrics, and exploring different evaluation metrics.\
\

\f0\b Requirements:
\f1\b0 \
* dask\
* pyspark\
* RegressionEvaluator\
* ALS\
* pyspark.sql\
* pandas\
* numpy\
* pickle\
* matplotlib\
* Ast\
* functools\
* scipy.states\
* rbo\
* sparse\
* dask_ml\
* time\
\
This notebook provides the EDA, data preparation, modeling, results, and evaluation for our recipe recommender system.\
\

\f0\b Part1: Data Loading and EDA
\f1\b0 \
Installing and Running the Project.\
##[Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shuyangli94/food-com-recipes-and-user-interactions)\
Download RAW_interactions and RAW_recipes datasets.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1. Shunyang Li et al. provide mulitle datasets. The RAW_interactions data is the raw data for user-recipe ratings and the RAW_recipes data is the raw data for recipes with ingredients. We use the user-recipe rating data for building matrix factorization models as desribed. The othe data are processed versions of the rating and recipe data and the ingr_map provides a tokenized dataset for the recipes\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
2. EDA Includes distributions for number of ratings per user, number of ratings per recipe, mean ratings, \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b Part 2: Data Preparation
\f1\b0 \
We remove \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
users who rated more than 100 recipes and fewer than 4; users who had an average rating of less than 2.5; recipes with fewer than 2 ratings; recipes with an average rating less than 2.5.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\

\f0\b Part 3: Recipe Recommender Modeling
\f1\b0 \

\f0\b 3a:
\f1\b0  ALS Collaborative Filtering, Pyspark.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Our first model for building the recommender system. It takes the user-recipe rating data. We build an ALS collaborative filtering model to predict the rating a user will give a recipe. Evaluation: \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 We look at Mean Squared Error (MSE), top-k-MSE, ranked biased overlap, Kendall\'92s Tau, normalized discounted cummulative gain, and Spearman Rank Correlation.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b 3b:
\f1\b0  User-user similarity, Dask.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa140\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This uses an alternative approach to predicting user ratings through similarity scoring metrics and includes different types of rating averaging for baseline evaluation. \cf2 Evaluation: \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 We look at Mean Squared Error (MSE), top-k-MSE, ranked biased overlap, Kendall\'92s Tau, normalized discounted cummulative gain, and Spearman Rank Correlation.
\f2 \
}